[Email Routing] Postmaster page (#3413)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/email-routing/src/content/postmaster.md

---
order: 4
pcx-content-type: reference
---

# Postmaster

> On this page, you will find technical information about Email Routing and best practices, rules, guidelines, and troubleshooting tools related to Email Routing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page contains technical information about Email Routing, along with best practices, rules, guidelines, and troubleshooting tools.
```

> This Postmaster page is especially helpful to the technical community and other email providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This information is especially helpful to the technical community and other email providers.
```

## Limits

Currently, Email Routing does not support messages bigger than 25 MiB.

## Outbound prefixes

Email Routing sends its traffic using IPv4 prefixes.

If you are a postmaster and are having trouble receiving Email Routing's emails, allow the following outbound IP addresses in your server configuration:

`104.30.0.0/20`

_Ranges last updated: December 7, 2021_

## Outbound hostnames

In addition to the outbound prefixes, Email Routing will use the domain `email.cloudflare.net` for the `HELO/EHLO` command.

PTR records (reverse DNS) ensure that each hostname has an corresponding IP. For example:

```sh
$ dig a0-7.email.cloudflare.net +short
104.30.0.7
 
$ dig -x 104.30.0.7 +short
a0-7.email.cloudflare.net.
```

> ## MX, SPF and DKIM records

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## MX, SPF, and DKIM records
```

Email Routing automatically adds a few DNS records to the zone when our customers enable Email Routing. If we take `example.com` as an example:

```txt

> exmaple.com. 300 IN MX 13 amir.mx.cloudflare.net.
> exmaple.com. 300 IN MX 86 linda.mx.cloudflare.net.
> exmaple.com. 300 IN MX 24 isaac.mx.cloudflare.net.
>  
> exmaple.com. 300 IN TXT "v=spf1 include:_spf.mx.cloudflare.net ~all"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example.com. 300 IN MX 13 amir.mx.cloudflare.net.
example.com. 300 IN MX 86 linda.mx.cloudflare.net.
example.com. 300 IN MX 24 isaac.mx.cloudflare.net.
 
example.com. 300 IN TXT "v=spf1 include:_spf.mx.cloudflare.net ~all"
```

```

> [The MX (mail exchanger) records](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dns-records/dns-mx-record/) tell the Internet where the inbound servers receiving email messages for the zone are. In this case, anyone who wants to send an email to `example.com`, can use the `amir.mx.cloudflare.net`, `linda.mx.cloudflare.net` or `isaac.mx.cloudflare.net` SMTP servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[The MX (mail exchange) records](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dns-records/dns-mx-record/) tell the Internet where the inbound servers receiving email messages for the zone are. In this case, anyone who wants to send an email to `example.com` can use the `amir.mx.cloudflare.net`, `linda.mx.cloudflare.net`, or `isaac.mx.cloudflare.net` SMTP servers.
```

## SPF record

A SPF DNS record is an anti-spoofing mechanism that is used to specify which IP addresses and domains are allowed to send emails on behalf of your zone.

The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) tracks the SPFv1 specification [in RFC 7208](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7208). Refer to the [SPF Record Syntax](http://www.open-spf.org/SPF_Record_Syntax/) to learn the SPF syntax.

> Email Routing's SPF record shows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Email Routing's SPF record contains the following:
```

```txt
v=spf1 include:_spf.mx.cloudflare.net ~all
```

In the example above:

* `spf1`: Refers to SPF version 1, the most common and more widely adopted version of SPF.
* `include`: Include a second query to `_spf.mx.cloudflare.net` and allow its contents.

> * `~all`: Otherwise [`SoftFail`](http://www.open-spf.org/SPF_Record_Syntax/) on all other origins. `SoftFail` means NOT allowed to send, but in transition. This instructs the upstream server to accept the email but mark it as bad if it came from any IP addresses outside of those defined in the SPF records.

Reviewer: Consider using some other word like "suspicious" instead of "bad". The blog post mentions the following:
> Softfail is interpreted differently by receiving mail servers, marking an email as Spam or insecure, depending on the server.

---
order: 4
pcx-content-type: reference
---

# Postmaster

On this page, you will find technical information about Email Routing and best practices, rules, guidelines, and troubleshooting tools related to Email Routing.

This Postmaster page is especially helpful to the technical community and other email providers.

## Limits

Currently, Email Routing does not support messages bigger than 25 MiB.

## Outbound prefixes

Email Routing sends its traffic using both IPv4 and IPv6 prefixes, when supported by the upstream SMTP server.

If you are a postmaster and are having trouble receiving Email Routing's emails, allow the following outbound IP addresses in your server configuration:

**IPv4**

`104.30.0.0/20`

**IPv6**

`2400:cb00:3000::/38`

_Ranges last updated: December 7, 2021_

## IPv6 support

> Cloudflare is one of the leading proponents of [IPv6 adoption](https://blog.cloudflare.com/98-percent-ipv6/). Cloudflare designs all of its products with IPv6 support in mind, and Email Routing is no exception. Currently, Email Routing will connect to the upstream SMTP servers using IPv6 if they provide AAAA records for their MX servers, and fall back to IPv4 if that is not possible.

Reviewer 2: We need to remove IPv6 or the strong wording at least because it's not supported
